functions/README_budspencer.md, before:

# Budspencer theme

A theme for nerds, makes fish even more powerful. It's equipped with a hell of a
lot of nice functions and key bindings to speed up your workflow.

The philosophy behind budspencer theme:

* Delimit the prompt lines clearly to the output.
* Produce output only if it contains relevant information.
* Show useful notifications within the prompt.
* Equip the prompt with toggle commands in order to change its style
  interactively.
* Store sessions in order to make frequently used commands quickly accessible.
* Make navigation within the directory tree as easy as possible using
  bookmarks and a directory history without duplicates.
* Make histories quickly accessible with menus.
* Don't stress your eyes. Use different colors in dark and bright environments.

## Demonstration video

[![video][screenshot]](http://vimeo.com/105546618)

## Requirements

You need an up-to-date fish shell version from [github][fish-git] or a
[nightly build][fish-nightly].

Non standard tools:

* xsel
* wmctrl
* git
* [taskwarrior][taskwarrior] (optional)
* [remind][remind] (optional)

### Note for OS X users

The theme uses advanced `sed` and `expr` features. The OS X tools have
restricted functionality.

Try `expr` from `coreutils` package if you see `expr: syntax error` in
budspencer prompt.

Install advanced `sed` and `expr` versions:

```
$ brew install coreutils gnu-sed
```

Add this to your `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:

```
if test (uname -s) = "Darwin"
  set -gx PATH /usr/local/opt/coreutils/libexec/gnubin $PATH
  set -gx PATH /usr/local/opt/gnu-sed/libexec/gnubin $PATH
end
```

## Configuration

### General configuration

The theme behaves similar to vim's airline/powerline plugins. Thus, it needs a
[powerline font][font].
It's also crucial to have vi mode enabled. Thus, execute
```
set -U fish_key_bindings fish_vi_key_bindings
```
before enabling the theme.

### Colors

Redefine `$budspencer_colors` with the `set` command in order to change the
colors of the prompt.

Example:
```
set budspencer_colors 000000 333333 666666 ffffff ffff00 ff6600 ff0000 ff0033 3300ff 0000ff 00ffff
00ff00
```
will result in a prompt like this:
![color replace example][colors]

Two color schemes for bright and dark environments are predefined. You can
enable them with `day` and `night`, respectively.

### Command history
Commands that shouldn't appear in the command history are defined by a universal
list `$budspencer_nocmdhist`. Default:
```
set -U budspencer_nocmdhist c d ll ls m s
```

### Disable/reenable greeting

Disable:
```
set -U budspencer_nogreeting
```

Reenable:
```
set -e budspencer_nogreeting
```

### Show Node version

To show your current node version, do following in your Fish configs
```
set -g budspencer_alt_environment "node -v"
```

## Ring the bell in order to set the urgency hint flag

If you have configured your terminal application to use the visual bell, your
window manager will tell you when a job running in your shell has finished. You
don't need to check manually whether it's done.

### Disable the acoustic bell

If you have still activated the acoustic bell, you probably hate that feature.
Switch it off in that case:
```
set -U budspencer_nobell
```

## Outer prompt segments

- Vi mode is indicated by color of outer segments, cursor color also changes
  if terminal supports it:
    * blue: NORMAL mode
    * yellow: INSERT mode
    * magenta: VISUAL mode

## Left prompt segments

- Prompt line number
- Git repository information
- Status symbols
    * ✻: keep track of this shell session, can be toggled with `#` to show the number of
       the session within the sessions list
    * ⌘: present working directory is in bookmark list, can be toggled with `#` to
        show the number of the bookmark
    * V: vi is parent process
    * R: [ranger][ranger] is parent process
    * ⚙: there are background jobs, can be toggled with `#` to show the amount of
        background jobs
    * : no write permissions in present working directory
    * ⚔: there are tasks scheduled for this week, can be toggled with `#` to
        show the amount of weekly tasks
    * ⚑: there are appointments for today, can be toggled with `#` to
        show the amount of appointments
    * ✔: last command succeeded, can be toggled with `#` to show the status value
    * ✘: last command failed, can be toggled with `#` to show the status value
    * ⚡: superuser indicator
- Present working directory
- Active Python [virtual environment](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/). Requires [Virtual Fish](https://github.com/adambrenecki/virtualfish/)

## Right prompt segments

- Last command's duration time
- Git status symbols:
    * ↑: git repository is ahead origin
    * ↓: git repository is behind origin
    * +: changes have been added to git index
    * –: files have been deleted in work tree
    * ✱: files have been modified in work tree
    * →: files have been renamed in git index
    * ═: there are unmerged commits
    * ●: there are untracked (new) files
    * ✭: there are stashed commits

## Toggle prompt segments

The following shortcuts need vi-mode:
- Style of "present working directory"-segment can be toggled in NORMAL and in
  VISUAL mode with space bar
    * styles implemented:
        - `short` (shows username, short hostname and truncated path; recommended in
          most cases)
        - `long` (shows username, full hostname and full path; useful for copy-paste
          in ssh connections)
        - `none` (shows nothing except small delimiter; useful for small terminals)
        - If prompt is toggled with `#`, the IP address is shown instead of the
          hostname.
    * configurable by universal list `$budspencer_pwdstyle` (if not set, defaults to
      `short long none`); note that changes to `$budspencer_pwdstyle` keep persistant as it's
      a universal variable.

![pwd style][pwdstyle]

- Style of symbols can be toggled in NORMAL and in VISUAL mode with `#`
    * styles implemented:
        - `symbols` (shows status symbols)
        - `numbers` (shows numbers instead of symbols in left prompt as well as amount of changes in
          right git prompt)

Note, the format is _username@hostname:pathname_. Thus, you can cut
the whole string with your mouse and paste it into `ssh` commands.

## Quickly navigate in history of working directories

The function `d` drops down a menu showing the history as enumerated list. Unlike
fish's builtin `dirh`, `d` does not show any duplicates. Enter a number to jump
to a directory within the list.

![dir menu][dirmenu]

The following shortcuts need vi-mode:
- Press `H` in NORMAL mode to change present working directory to previous
  working directory in history.
- Press `L` in NORMAL mode to change present working directory to next working
  directory in history.

## Quickly navigate in command history

The function `c` drops down a menu showing the command history as enumerated list similarly to
the `d` function. Selections are also pasted into the X clipboard. It's possible
to load a command of a former prompt by giving the prompt line number as
argument.

## Bookmarks

A bookmark can be created with `mark`. It can be removed with `unmark`. 

`unmark` can take an argument to remove a specific bookmark in the bookmark list. 
Simply add the number of the bookmark you would like to remove as the argument.

Bookmarks are universal and thus persistant.
A new shell automatically changes working directory on startup to newest bookmark.
`m` is a function that drops down a menu showing the bookmarks as enumerated list
equivalently to `d`.

The following shortcuts need vi mode:
- Create a bookmark for present working directory with `m` in NORMAL mode.
- Remove a bookmark for present working directory with `M` in NORMAL mode.

By default the shell will change to the directory of the latest bookmark on a new session. 
This can be disabled by adding the following line:

```
set -U budspencer_no_cd_bookmark
```

## Edit commandline with your favorite editor

The function `edit-commandline` let you edit the commandline with your editor.
It makes the commandline as powerful as your editor. If `$EDITOR` is not set,
vi is used.

The following shortcut needs vi mode:
- Type `.` in NORMAL mode to edit commandline in editor.

## Sessions

Shell session can be stored with `s <session name>`. If a session with `session
name` already exists, the session with this name will be attached. If a session with
`session name` is already active within another terminal, this terminal will be
focussed.

A list of available sessions can be shown with `s`.

A session can be erased with `s -e <session name>`.

Type `s -d` to detach current session.

## Set window title

Just type `wt <title>`.

## TODO

- vi REPLACE mode, as soon as REPLACE mode is implemented within fish

## Feedback

Give me feedback if you ...
* ... have ideas how I could improve budspencer.
* ... have problems with budspencer.
* ... have questions concerning budspencer.

[font]: https://github.com/Lokaltog/powerline-fonts
[ranger]: http://ranger.nongnu.org/
[taskwarrior]: http://taskwarrior.org/
[remind]: http://www.roaringpenguin.com/products/remind
[fish-git]: https://github.com/fish-shell/fish-shell.git
[fish-nightly]: https://github.com/fish-shell/fish-shell/wiki/Nightly-builds
[screenshot]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tannhuber/media/master/budspencer.jpg
[colors]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tannhuber/media/master/budspencer_replace_colors.jpg
[dirmenu]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tannhuber/media/master/budspencer_dir_menu.jpg
[pwdstyle]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tannhuber/media/master/budspencer_pwd_style.jpg

Commit message:

Improved README and dracula color scheme

functions/README_budspencer.md, after:

Forked from [github][theme-budspencer] to add compatibility with [github][fisher] and fix minor issues.

# Budspencer theme

A theme for nerds, makes fish even more powerful. It's equipped with a hell of a
lot of nice functions and key bindings to speed up your workflow.

The philosophy behind budspencer theme:

* Delimit the prompt lines clearly to the output.
* Produce output only if it contains relevant information.
* Show useful notifications within the prompt.
* Equip the prompt with toggle commands in order to change its style
  interactively.
* Store sessions in order to make frequently used commands quickly accessible.
* Make navigation within the directory tree as easy as possible using
  bookmarks and a directory history without duplicates.
* Make histories quickly accessible with menus.
* Don't stress your eyes. Use different colors in dark and bright environments.

## Demonstration video

[![video][screenshot]](http://vimeo.com/105546618)

## Requirements

You need an up-to-date fish shell version from [github][fish-git] or a
[nightly build][fish-nightly].

Non standard tools:

* xsel
* wmctrl
* git
* [taskwarrior][taskwarrior] (optional)
* [remind][remind] (optional)

### Note for OS X users

The theme uses advanced `sed` and `expr` features. The OS X tools have
restricted functionality.

Try `expr` from `coreutils` package if you see `expr: syntax error` in
budspencer prompt.

Install advanced `sed` and `expr` versions:

```
$ brew install coreutils gnu-sed
```

Add this to your `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:

```
if test (uname -s) = "Darwin"
  set -gx PATH /usr/local/opt/coreutils/libexec/gnubin $PATH
  set -gx PATH /usr/local/opt/gnu-sed/libexec/gnubin $PATH
end
```

## Installation

Using [github][fisher]:
```
fisher install ngmoviedo/theme-budspencer
```

## Configuration

### General configuration

The theme behaves similar to vim's airline/powerline plugins. Thus, it needs a
[powerline font][font].
It's also crucial to have vi mode enabled. Thus, execute
```
set -U fish_key_bindings fish_vi_key_bindings
```
before enabling the theme.

### Colors

Redefine `$budspencer_colors` with the `set` command in order to change the
colors of the prompt.

Example:
```
set budspencer_colors 000000 333333 666666 ffffff ffff00 ff6600 ff0000 ff0033 3300ff 0000ff 00ffff
00ff00
```
will result in a prompt like this:
![color replace example][colors]

Two color schemes for bright and dark environments are predefined. You can
enable them with `day` and `night`, respectively.

Another color scheme that matches [github][dracula] colors is predefined. You can enable it with `dracula_budscpencer`.

### Command history
Commands that shouldn't appear in the command history are defined by a universal
list `$budspencer_nocmdhist`. Default:
```
set -U budspencer_nocmdhist c d ll ls m s
```

### Disable/reenable greeting

Disable:
```
set -U budspencer_nogreeting
```

Reenable:
```
set -e budspencer_nogreeting
```

### Show Node version

To show your current node version, do following in your Fish configs
```
set -g budspencer_alt_environment "node -v"
```

## Ring the bell in order to set the urgency hint flag

If you have configured your terminal application to use the visual bell, your
window manager will tell you when a job running in your shell has finished. You
don't need to check manually whether it's done.

### Disable the acoustic bell

If you have still activated the acoustic bell, you probably hate that feature.
Switch it off in that case:
```
set -U budspencer_nobell
```

## Outer prompt segments

- Vi mode is indicated by color of outer segments, cursor color also changes
  if terminal supports it:
    * blue: NORMAL mode
    * yellow: INSERT mode
    * magenta: VISUAL mode

## Left prompt segments

- Prompt line number
- Git repository information
- Status symbols
    * ✻: keep track of this shell session, can be toggled with `#` to show the number of
       the session within the sessions list
    * ⌘: present working directory is in bookmark list, can be toggled with `#` to
        show the number of the bookmark
    * V: vi is parent process
    * R: [ranger][ranger] is parent process
    * ⚙: there are background jobs, can be toggled with `#` to show the amount of
        background jobs
    * : no write permissions in present working directory
    * ⚔: there are tasks scheduled for this week, can be toggled with `#` to
        show the amount of weekly tasks
    * ⚑: there are appointments for today, can be toggled with `#` to
        show the amount of appointments
    * ✔: last command succeeded, can be toggled with `#` to show the status value
    * ✘: last command failed, can be toggled with `#` to show the status value
    * ⚡: superuser indicator
- Present working directory
- Active Python [virtual environment](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/). Requires [Virtual Fish](https://github.com/adambrenecki/virtualfish/)

## Right prompt segments

- Last command's duration time
- Git status symbols:
    * ↑: git repository is ahead origin
    * ↓: git repository is behind origin
    * +: changes have been added to git index
    * –: files have been deleted in work tree
    * ✱: files have been modified in work tree
    * →: files have been renamed in git index
    * ═: there are unmerged commits
    * ●: there are untracked (new) files
    * ✭: there are stashed commits

## Toggle prompt segments

The following shortcuts need vi-mode:
- Style of "present working directory"-segment can be toggled in NORMAL and in
  VISUAL mode with space bar
    * styles implemented:
        - `short` (shows username, short hostname and truncated path; recommended in
          most cases)
        - `long` (shows username, full hostname and full path; useful for copy-paste
          in ssh connections)
        - `none` (shows nothing except small delimiter; useful for small terminals)
        - If prompt is toggled with `#`, the IP address is shown instead of the
          hostname.
    * configurable by universal list `$budspencer_pwdstyle` (if not set, defaults to
      `short long none`); note that changes to `$budspencer_pwdstyle` keep persistant as it's
      a universal variable.

![pwd style][pwdstyle]

- Style of symbols can be toggled in NORMAL and in VISUAL mode with `#`
    * styles implemented:
        - `symbols` (shows status symbols)
        - `numbers` (shows numbers instead of symbols in left prompt as well as amount of changes in
          right git prompt)

Note, the format is _username@hostname:pathname_. Thus, you can cut
the whole string with your mouse and paste it into `ssh` commands.

## Quickly navigate in history of working directories

The function `d` drops down a menu showing the history as enumerated list. Unlike
fish's builtin `dirh`, `d` does not show any duplicates. Enter a number to jump
to a directory within the list.

![dir menu][dirmenu]

The following shortcuts need vi-mode:
- Press `H` in NORMAL mode to change present working directory to previous
  working directory in history.
- Press `L` in NORMAL mode to change present working directory to next working
  directory in history.

## Quickly navigate in command history

The function `c` drops down a menu showing the command history as enumerated list similarly to
the `d` function. Selections are also pasted into the X clipboard. It's possible
to load a command of a former prompt by giving the prompt line number as
argument.

## Bookmarks

A bookmark can be created with `mark`. It can be removed with `unmark`. 

`unmark` can take an argument to remove a specific bookmark in the bookmark list. 
Simply add the number of the bookmark you would like to remove as the argument.

Bookmarks are universal and thus persistant.
A new shell automatically changes working directory on startup to newest bookmark.
`m` is a function that drops down a menu showing the bookmarks as enumerated list
equivalently to `d`.

The following shortcuts need vi mode:
- Create a bookmark for present working directory with `m` in NORMAL mode.
- Remove a bookmark for present working directory with `M` in NORMAL mode.

By default the shell will change to the directory of the latest bookmark on a new session. 
This can be disabled by adding the following line:

```
set -U budspencer_no_cd_bookmark
```

## Edit commandline with your favorite editor

The function `edit-commandline` let you edit the commandline with your editor.
It makes the commandline as powerful as your editor. If `$EDITOR` is not set,
vi is used.

The following shortcut needs vi mode:
- Type `.` in NORMAL mode to edit commandline in editor.

## Sessions

Shell session can be stored with `s <session name>`. If a session with `session
name` already exists, the session with this name will be attached. If a session with
`session name` is already active within another terminal, this terminal will be
focussed.

A list of available sessions can be shown with `s`.

A session can be erased with `s -e <session name>`.

Type `s -d` to detach current session.

## Set window title

Just type `wt <title>`.

## TODO

- vi REPLACE mode, as soon as REPLACE mode is implemented within fish

## Feedback

Give me feedback if you ...
* ... have ideas how I could improve budspencer.
* ... have problems with budspencer.
* ... have questions concerning budspencer.

[font]: https://github.com/Lokaltog/powerline-fonts
[ranger]: http://ranger.nongnu.org/
[taskwarrior]: http://taskwarrior.org/
[remind]: http://www.roaringpenguin.com/products/remind
[fish-git]: https://github.com/fish-shell/fish-shell.git
[fish-nightly]: https://github.com/fish-shell/fish-shell/wiki/Nightly-builds
[screenshot]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tannhuber/media/master/budspencer.jpg
[colors]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tannhuber/media/master/budspencer_replace_colors.jpg
[dirmenu]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tannhuber/media/master/budspencer_dir_menu.jpg
[pwdstyle]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tannhuber/media/master/budspencer_pwd_style.jpg
